https://www.theguardian.com/fashion/2016/sep/28/milan-fashion-week-sporty-evening-sandals-bare-ribs

 Sporty evening sandals and bare ribs: Milan fashion week’s messages

Here are the five shows that mattered – and why

No, I’m not winding you up. And, yes, I’m talking about that Gucci show, the one with the orange fur coat 
with the zebras and the red leather jacket with the pussybow collar. Gucci has changed how we dress. I’ve been 
watching the off-catwalk fashion – not so much the peacocky Anna Dello Russo stuff as what the fashion footsoldiers wear, 
which is much more telling – and a key look right now is a midi-length, loose, floral or colourful dress worn with 
comfortable shoes (trainers, chunky loafers, flatforms).

Dakota Johnson at the Gucci show.

This look – the fancy-but-not-cocktailish dress worn with practical shoes – is what Gucci looks like when you pare down 
the pearl trims, the bows, the sparkly sunglasses. Dakota Johnson, Gucci’s poster girl, nailed the look in the front row: 
long tea dress, chunky loafers, denim jacket. Alessandro Michele is winning at Gucci because he is affecting not just the 
brand’s bottom line, but what we actually wear.

Dolce & Gabbana channels gelato at its SS17 show. Photograph: REX/Shutterstock

A T-shirt dress modelled on a tin of tomatoes has all the aesthetic sophistication of a Make America Great Again cap, 
but that’s exactly the point. This is the year of the anti-intellectual, the year when the experts became the bogeymen. 
Dolce & Gabbana has a business rooted in skilled craftmanship and expert tailoring – its stores are still full of beautifully 
tailored suits, and refined cocktail wear – but it has the instinctive emotional intelligence to grasp that, in 2016, the most 
effective message is the simplest one. Italian food and emoji-level communication: what’s not to love?

Versace: athleisure’s legacy for this party season will be the comfortable evening shoe

Donatella Versace and Miuccia Prada are the two polar opposite grande dames of Milan fashion week, so it is a significant moment 
when the two of them agree on a look. At Versace, the first two models on to the catwalk wore a sporty version of an evening 
sandal, heeled but with Teva-style wide, velcro-tabbed straps rather than spindly, piano-wire buckled ones. At Prada, 
medium-heeled evening sandals had sparkle at the front, but the same sporty-utilitarian vibe at the ankle strap.

Sportswear upstyled at Versace SS17.

The athleisure aesthetic does not sit as naturally in Milan as it does in New York, where sporting chic is at the heart of style 
heritage. (The Italian TV presenter at Versace who complimented Serena Williams on being “so sporty” seemed to sum up the way 
in which female athleticism is still treated almost as an eccentricity here.) Until recently, this was reflected in catwalks 
where tracksuit bottoms and go-faster striped collections were worn with wobbly stilettos. But the prime party-season takeout 
is the long-awaited triumph of the dancefloor sandal over the taxi shoe.

Prada: the skirt is back

Anna Wintour pointed to “the appropriation of normal clothing” as a theme of the Milan shows. There were hotel slippers at 
D&G and anoraks at Versace, but the spiritual home of the elevated-normal will always be Prada. After last season’s sailor 
hats and corset belts, Prada was back to doing what Prada does best, which is offbeat versions of normal clothes. Key points 
to note: the skirt – which has been mostly sidelined from recent catwalks in favour of crazy trouser shapes – was very much back here.

A detailed skirt at Prada SS17.
This is probably a good commercial move, because a glance around the audience reveals that everyone is still wearing those foil 
skirts from, like, three seasons ago, so clearly there’s a market for a fancy skirt. Observe, also, the deliberately 
nausea-inducing colour combination, which is what makes this outfit look fashion and is the reason why the Duchess of 
Cambridge with her matchy-matchy, tone-on-tone wardrobe never ever looks fashion even when she’s in head-to-toe McQueen or Preen.

Fendi: the prime rib is the new cold shoulder

In the afterglow of the July couture show, staged on a glassed-over Trevi fountain, Fendi is a serious fashion force right now. 
This week’s catwalk show took looks that were hovering on the edges of our vision and pulled them into focus. Knitted sock boots
 put a pretty spin on a sellout piece from the cult Vetements line; pinafore-shape dresses looked grownup and elegant; handbags boasted the ornate guitar-strap handles that will dominate in 2017. But the central message was in the sweaters – simple and long-sleeved but cropped or slashed to show the lower ribs.

 Simply styled prime rib at Fendi SS17.

Say goodbye to the cold shoulder, and get ready for the prime rib. This trend is unlikely to have the same mass appeal – the allure 
of the cold-shoulder being precisely that this is a body part normal women feel confident in revealing, which doesn’t translate 
to the torso – but the look certainly seemed to make an impression on Fendi front-rower Serena Williams, who sported an ab-flashing 
sweater for her next fashion week appearance at Versace.


